Where to go from here?

Before building more models (production and consumption, yeah!), let's squeeze a little
more insight out of this one.


BARGAINING POWER

First, I want to see what happens when we DON'T look for a competitive equilibrium.
What if one agent is able to persuade the other one to accept a suboptimal deal?
We'll assume that they negotiate to a point on the contract curve between their initial
utility curves, so no one is made worse off (although it wouldn't be hard to relax this
assumption). If we use Cobb-Douglas utility with preferences (0.5, 0.5) for all agents,
the contract curve is simply X=Y. (what if total X != total Y?) So the competitive
equilibrium is:

    X1' = mean(X1, X2)
    X2' = X_total - X1'

    Y1' = X1'
    Y2' = Y_total - Y1'

What if, instead of splitting the difference, each agent gets a charisma score (or a
charisma distribution)? Then we calculate the relative influence of each agent as the
proportion of their charisma out of the sum of the two charisma scores. Each agent in
turn receives that proportion of the economic surplus.

We trade this way, and then when we simulate we can look at how utility evolves over
time for people with various charisma scores.


IMPERFECT INFORMATION

Suppose agents don't know their own utility functions, but they do know if they like a
proposed allocation more than what they currently have. Let's say they even know what
their preference parameters are; they just don't know the form of their utility function.
In this economy, agent 1 can make an offer that agent 2 can accept or reject. Can we
use neural networks to train agents how to make good trades?

How would we define the cost function for that network?

Say for a given trade, agent 1 can see the allocations and preference parameters of both
agents, and make an offer to agent 2. If agent 2 accepts, they make a trade. After the
deal (whether it succeeds or fails to go through), we calculate the error as
    ? delta(Utility1)
    ? delta(Utility2) - delta(Utility1)
