Well, this is my first blog post, so bear with me while I find my groove.
I've wanted to do this for a while, but I never knew exactly what I would
write about -- not that I can't think of anything to say; the real question
was where to begin.  So I want to thank Peter Norvig for giving me the entry
point I was looking for.

Peter Norvig is an artificial intelligence super-guru and Google's head of
research.  You could say he's a pretty smart guy.  Last week he posted an
entry on his blog about how to build an economic simulator using Python.
This is something I've wanted to do for quite some time, so I was very
interested to see how he put it together, and even more interested to see
if I could find my own way to improve on it.  (I like to work by finding
cool things and making them work a little better.)  I would recommend you
at least skim through his blog post before reading on, if you're interested
in understanding how the simulation works.

In a nutshell, the simulator has four components.  There's a population of
people with randomly distributed wealth.  There's an interaction model that
matches people in the population to trade with each other.  There's a
transaction model that determines who gets what when they trade.  And there's
a simulation model that ties it all together by creating a population,
choosing people to interact, executing their transactions, and reporting on
the simulation results.  In this case, the results are measurements of how
the wealth is distributed among the members of the population.

Now, this is by no means a criticism of Peter Norvig, but I felt that the
transactions model he used in his simulation was a bit wanting.  On the one
hand, it's just a model, so it's supposed to be a rough estimate of how the
world works, but on the other hand, if you want to draw any conclusions from
what your simulation says is happening, you have to understand what kind of
transactions your model is depicting.  In this case, every time two people
would meet, they would randomly choose some amount of wealth for one person
to give the other, with the first person receiving nothing in return.  It was
a very simple economy, where nothing was produced and nothing was consumed,
so the total amount of wealth stayed constant.  And in the end, after running
several simulations with different models for creating populations, finding
interactions and executing transactions, the results were very consistent:
the richest members of the population always got richer and the poorest
always got poorer.

What bothered me about this simulation is that there was really no motivation
for why people would want to trade with each other in this economy.  The real
question is, why are the people in this economy trading with each other this
way?  If one person is just taking from another and giving nothing in return,
this is a model of theft, not trade.  It's basically a simulation of a bunch
of pickpockets running around and stealing from each other.